Today we will talk about a very
common concept used almost
daily by analysts of Corporate
Finance, M & A, etc.,
which are the operational
needs of funds.
They are usually known by their acronym
NOF and in English they are called
Working Capital, which, of course,
sometimes is translated into
Spanish as a maneuvering fund,
but it is not exactly the
same.
And I'm telling you that there is a lot of
trouble with regard to terminology,
but really the important thing is that
we understand well what NOFs consist
of and what they inform us about.
Now, let’s go to the balance.
The first thing I want you to
understand is the following.
Really a company, the net
investment that a company has
to make to power, for its activity,
is equal to on the one hand the non-
current assets, which are
the fixed assets, more, and here
comes the appreciation and
evolution with respect to
the balance sheet situation, more
the operational needs of funds,
which are not exactly equal
to the current asset.
And the sum of these two amounts,
fixed assets or non-current assets,
plus operational fund needs,
by the way, sometimes is less,
because sometimes the NOFs
are negative.
Well, so that you understand it well.
The sum of these two concepts is
the real investment that a company
has to make.
Therefore, we must learn to calculate
what the amount of NOFs
is.
And it is very simple.
We start from the situation balance
sheet and what we do is, in the current
asset, we will eliminate the effect
of some items that are financial,
which are not operational.
For example, if there are short-
term financial versions, which is very
common, what we do is to take them
away because they are not really
needed for the operations of the
company.
Or if we have a treasury balance
with surpluses over the minimum
required box, we also take it away.
And we are left with the necessary
parties to operate, which
are mainly two.
It’s the stocks, the balance you
have, the average balance you have
in stocks, in the warehouse or wherever,
and the customer salaries,
that’s what your customers
owe you.
For calculating NOFs, what we have
to do now is to take into account
spontaneous financing, which
is a concept that you should already
understand because we have
seen it before.
That is, what we will do is clean
up those operating assets, restore
the balance of suppliers because
the suppliers are helping
us to finance the company’
s operations.
We can now calculate the
NOCs.
There are fewer customers and fewer suppliers.
And that balance, that difference,
is the permanent investment that
a company must have to operate,
which is directly related
to its operations or to its
economic activity.
If we add the investment in fixed
assets, we already have the total
net investment that from the perspective
of the sources of financing,
we already know the total
amount we have to finance.
How is?
Net debt or debt
claim.
Because the rest, what is below,
help us to finance it by
providers, is spontaneous
financing.
The balance of NOFs is usually
positive.
That is, customers plus stocks
is higher than the funding
granted by suppliers.
This implies that that difference
to NOFs, well, because you
have to get funding
to finance that net investment.
However, there are cases where this is not
the case.
For example, in the large distributors
always set themselves as an
example.
In which they pay their
suppliers 90 days, for
example, but charge customers
in cash.
And what happens in this case
is that suppliers are helping
to finance the company’s operations.
We see it in the balance sheet.
When NOFs are negative, suppliers
are actually helping to finance
a portion of your investments
in fixed, fixed, or
non-current assets.
So they are minimizing your financial
needs, they are minimizing the
own funds you have to contribute
or they are minimizing
the liabilities, the debts
you have to apply for.
Therefore, it is a much better scenario,
but that is common, it is common
only in very few sectors.
Next, what we will do is
to analyze what depends on
the operational needs of funds,
what depends on these three
main parts, which are customers,
stocks and suppliers.